 
# Type Systen

Autumn is a statically-typed language that compiles to JVM bytecode and can interact with other JVM based languages. 
As a result, the type-system is closely related to the JVM type-system. 


## Recursive Definition of Types
+ The boolean-type is a primitive-type.
+ The char-type is a primitive-type. 
+ The byte-type is a primitive-type.
+ A class-type is a declared-type.
+ An interface-type is a declared-type.
+ An enum-type is a declared-type. 
+ A declared-type is a reference-type. 
+ An array-type is a reference-type. 


## Boxing Conversions
+ A value of the boolean-type can be converted to a #JavaLangBoolean# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the char-type can be converted to a #JavaLangCharacter# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the byte-type can be converted to a #JavaLangByte# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the short-type can be converted to a #JavaLangShort# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the int-type can be converted to a #JavaLangInteger# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the long-type can be converted to a #JavaLangLong# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the float-type can be converted to a #JavaLangFloat# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the double-type can be converted to a #JavaLangDouble# value via a boxing conversion. 



## Unboxing Conversions
+ A #JavaLangBoolean# value can be converted to a value of the boolean-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangCharacter# value can be converted to a value of the char-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangByte# value can be converted to a value of the byte-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangShort# value can be converted to a value of the short-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangInteger# value can be converted to a value of the int-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangLong# value can be converted to a value of the long-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangFloat# value can be converted to a value of the float-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangDouble# value can be converted to a value of the double-type via a boxing conversion. 



## Identity Conversion
Any value of a type X can is a value of type X via an identity conversion. 



## Subtyping
A type X is a subtype of a type T, iff:

+ X is T
+ X is a reference-type and the direct superclass of X is a subtype of T.
+ X is a reference-type and a direct superinterface of X is a subtype of T.
+ X is the null-type and T is a reference-type. 
+ X and T are array-types of N dimensions and the element-type of X is a subtype of the element-type T


## Assignability
A value of type X is assignable to a location of type T, iff:

+ X is T
+ X is a subtype of T
+ X is convertable to T via a boxing conversion
+ X is convertable to T via an unboxing conversion
+ X is the null-type and T is a reference-type



## Full Name of a Type



## Type Descriptor

## Internal Name of a Type

## Method Descriptor
The descriptor of a method is a string consisting of the following parts:

1. a single left parenthesis character,
2. the type descriptor of each formal parameter type appended together,
3. a single right parenthesis character,
4. the descriptor of the method's return-type

Examples:

+ add(int x) => "(I)"

## Method Name + Descriptor

## Method Name + Parameter List Descriptor



# Type Accessibility
A type T is accessible from within the definition of a type U, iff:

+ T is U
+ T is in the same package as U
+ T is in a different package than U and T has public-access


# Type Member Accessibility
A member M of a type T is accessible in the definition of a type U, iff:





## Instance Field Resolution

## Static Field Resolution



## Constructor Resolution

A constructor is simply a special method whose name is "<init>". 
As a result, the resolution of a constructor is equivalent to that of a static method.


## Instance Method Resolution

## Static Method Resolution




