# Type Conversions and Assignability

## Boxing Conversions
+ A value of the boolean-type can be converted to a #JavaLangBoolean# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the char-type can be converted to a #JavaLangCharacter# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the byte-type can be converted to a #JavaLangByte# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the short-type can be converted to a #JavaLangShort# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the int-type can be converted to a #JavaLangInteger# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the long-type can be converted to a #JavaLangLong# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the float-type can be converted to a #JavaLangFloat# value via a boxing conversion. 
+ A value of the double-type can be converted to a #JavaLangDouble# value via a boxing conversion. 



## Unboxing Conversions
+ A #JavaLangBoolean# value can be converted to a value of the boolean-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangCharacter# value can be converted to a value of the char-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangByte# value can be converted to a value of the byte-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangShort# value can be converted to a value of the short-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangInteger# value can be converted to a value of the int-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangLong# value can be converted to a value of the long-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangFloat# value can be converted to a value of the float-type via a boxing conversion. 
+ A #JavaLangDouble# value can be converted to a value of the double-type via a boxing conversion. 



## Identity Conversion
Any value of a type X can is a value of type X via an identity conversion. 



## Subtyping
A type X is a subtype of a type T, iff:

+ X is T
+ X is a reference-type and the direct superclass of X is a subtype of T.
+ X is a reference-type and a direct superinterface of X is a subtype of T.
+ X is the null-type and T is a reference-type. 
+ X and T are array-types of N dimensions and the element-type of X is a subtype of the element-type T


## Assignability
A value of type X is assignable to a location of type T, iff:

+ X is T
+ X is a subtype of T
+ X is convertable to T via a boxing conversion
+ X is convertable to T via an unboxing conversion
+ X is the null-type and T is a reference-type 
